정답은 일부만 있습니다. 

1. Executable file이 메모리에 올라갈 때 어떤 위치에 올라가게 될지는 미리 알 수 없다. 올라가는 위치의 주소에 따라, 변수나 함수의 주소가 바뀌게 될텐데 링커와 로더가 이를 어떻게 처리하는지 설명하시오. 

Linker: (5 points) 
- Each relocatable file has its own address space. Linker merges their multiple address space into monolithic address space. Dynamic linker binds shared libraries at runtime. 

Loader: (5 points) 
- It maps contiguous chunks of the executable file to virtual address space and creates memory image (stack, heap, code, data), using segment header table. 

2. Global variable을 사용했을 때, 생기는 문제점과 해결방안을 제시하시오. 

Problem: (5 points) 
- There can be naming conflicts. If there are only ... 

Solution: (4~5 points) 
- If a global variable is used within a file, it's a solution to use static keyword. ... 
- ... 

3. Setjmp()/longjmp()는 언제 사용되는지 설명하시오. 

- setjmp 설명 (2.5 points) 

- longjmp 설명 (2.5 points) 
- When non local jump is needed, because normal jmp can't jump to other functions without call-return sequence. ... (5 points) 

4. Library interpositioning을 runtime에 하려면 어떤 식으로 해야하는 지 설명하시오. 

Make shared library wrapping existing library. And set the LD_PRELOAD environment variable to libdl.so and your shared library path. This process tells the dynamic linker to resolve unresolved library reference by looking in your shared library path first. 

5. Class A와 Class B IP address가 어떻게 다른지 설명하시오. 

Prefix 5점, # Networks and host address 5점. 

6. Zombie process 어떻게 생기는지, 이를 어떻게 방지할 수 있는지 설명하시오. 

How: (5 points) 
- When a child dies before its parent dies and the child isn't reaped ... 

Solution: (5 points) 
- Parent exis afret parent reaps all its children. 
- When child exis and parent process is still running, it's a solution to send killing signal (kill) to its parent. ... 

7. 지금의 Linux에서는 여러 개의 시그널이 도착해도 이를 모두 처리하는 것은 불가능하다. 그 이유를 설명하고 어떻게 하면 모든 시그널을 받을 수 있겠는지 방법을 제시하시오. 

Reason: (5 points) 
1 bit라서 ... 
Solution: ( 5points) 
Queuing, Counting, ... 

8. TLB의 역할은 무엇이고 왜 일반적인 cache보다 hit ratio가 높은지 설명하시오. 

What: (5 points) 
TLB is the cache of page table, neither instruction nor data. 
Why: (5 points) 
The TLB entry represents virtual page number. The range that causes TLB hit is the page size (4k). Every address within a page cause hit. On the other hand, the range that causes normal cache hit is the block (word) size (4 bytes). So TLB's hit ratio is higher ... 

9. File I/O에서 short count란 무엇인지 언제 일어나는지 설명하시오. 

What: (5 points) 
When: (4~5 points) 
두가지 이상 쓰면 5점 

10. NAT와 PAT의 차이를 설명하시오. 

Concurrent connection per IP. (NAT). NAT shares IP (5 points) 
Concurrent connection per each port of each IP. (PAT) PAT shares IP and Port (5 points) 